[Background Music]
>> And I think many people
today don't know what
to believe anymore.
>> People need to keep on-- help
uncover what really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the
entire story.
>> And now the host of
the nationally syndicated,
Coast to Coast A.M.  [applause]
and  Gaiam TV bring you Beyond
Belief with George Noory.
>> George Noory: Thanks again
and welcome to Beyond Belief.
Did you know that there
are forces at work
to control your health,
to control your finances
because they want to make the
money and take advantage of you?
Our guest on Beyond Belief
is a homeopathic doctor,
Dr. Robin Falkov, Robin.
How are you?
[Applause] Good to see you.
Have a seat.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Thank you.
Good to see you.
>> George Noory: How
did you get involved
in homeopathic medicine?
What was it out there that
really sparked your interest?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Well
it's an interesting story
that I'm sure that
everybody can relate
to because had I known what
homeopathy was I would not have
really tried what was
recommended to me.
But not knowing I used
this particular remedy
and I was wondering
what felt strange
because there was a vocal cord
infection and some congestion
and it didn't respond to
antibiotics and my neighbor
at the time said try this but I
tried it and I didn't get tired.
My mouth didn't get dry.
My eyes didn't get wet
but my symptoms went away.
That was proof for me and
then I continued exploring
and educating myself and was
so much motivated by homeopathy
that I went back to
school and got my degree
as a Doctor of Oriental
Medicine.
>> George Noory: Good for you.
Robin is a frequent
guest on Coast to Coast.
So this is a first for us
before a television camera.
And you should not hide yourself
behind a radio mic so often.
And obviously you have
helped a lot of people Robin,
not only on our program
but in all walks of life,
people that you know,
people that you care about.
What is going on, on this
planet right now to try
to control the natural
remedies that are out there,
that are available to
us, that are inexpensive?
They want this because
they can't make any money
at it, can they?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: No you've
really hit the point there
with what's going on.
Homeopathy is cheap.
You don't have your
patient's coming back to you
when you do a proper work up
and you have identified what
their specific needs are
to get to the root cause.
When you get to the root cause,
you're not treating symptoms,
you're treating the problem.
And that's how you're
able to heal.
But that goes against
the business plan
for western medicine because
when you treat symptoms the
medications have side effects
and the side effects
bring the patients back
for more medication and that
creates unknown entities.
It's a very, very
dangerous pattern
that has become mainstream now.
>> George Noory: You know
I used to look at products
that we would make as a
young boy and I would say,
"Why do they want to
make a refrigerator
that would last forever?
They can't make any
money doing that,
selling one refrigerator
to one family.
They want these things to break
down every five years or so."
It's the same with
a human being.
Why do we want to cure
you so that you never have
to buy pharmaceutical
prescriptions?
We want you sick.
We want you ill.
And that's what they do.
They don't want to solve
the human dilemma, do they?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: No they
don't and oh gosh, George.
I guess we'll get into
some of this later.
I've been doing so much research
which everything
is the right time
because had I encountered some
of this information before
I would have brushed it off
and said they're conspiracy
nuts and that's how some
of this information was
reviewed and denied to take away
from what it really is and
it's a great business plan.
Can you imagine a better plan?
>> George Noory: It's genius.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Yes, yeah.
But just let's not use it.
>> George Noory:
I mean most people
if you're a good business
man and you've developed
and you're looking for a
pharmaceutical company the name
of the game is to come
up with new market share.
You come up with new drugs.
They race them through
the FDA for approval.
The FDA in a year or two
later yanks some of them
because they cause all these
horrible things to people.
It's an unbelievable game
that they're all involved in.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Definitely,
and we look at the
other components
of the game we're dealing with,
people that are very high
up in the government.
They are elected
officials, then they're CEOs
of pharmaceutical companies,
then they work the for the FDA
and they rotate through these
positions with a lot of baggage,
a lot of baggage and a lot
of favors that are owed.
So we don't get what we
really need to be getting
out of the companies that
are there to protect us.
>> George Noory: Lawyers who
work for the FDA end up working
for the companies that they
would approve or vice versa.
The company's lawyers would
retire then they become top
government officials in the FDA.
I mean it's an unbelievable
game.
I like and you do too,
mainstream medicine.
There are a lot of good doctors
out there who are truly trying
to make us better but
not a lot of them.
They don't seem to
all understand
that there are other ways
and alternative ways
to fix ourselves.
You do. You go through a regimen
of things to help people,
people again that you've cared
about, no names mentioned,
but you have been able to make a
lot of people healthy naturally.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Definitely.
>> George Noory: What does that
tell you about the human body
and its ability to fight back?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
It's powerful.
There are no limits.
There really are no limits
and what I take issue
with are the physicians that
many of them are so well-meaning
but they will still
tell a patient,
"There's absolutely
nothing that you can do.
This has no cure.
We can't had help you.
There's nothing."
It should be there's
nothing in western medicine
because there are many
other modalities not just
homeopathies, not
just Chinese medicine,
not just herbs or supplements.
There's an enormous
amount to choose
from that is highly effective.
>> George Noory: How much of
our illness is directly related
to what mankind has done in the
environment wherever you go?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Gosh George,
I have to say that's
the root cause
because you have
the environment.
You have all the chemical
pollution, nuclear pollution,
oil, fracking, contaminants
from pesticides, from GMOs.
You have these enormous
loads on the immune system
and there's just so much
that a body can take before
that's the final straw
and something happens that
you start to have symptoms
and you start to break down.
Our food is grown is the soil
that does not have the minerals
that are necessary
to sustain health.
The amount of time that
it takes for your food
to reach the supermarket
can be weeks.
In that period of time the
nutritional quality breaks down.
So we're fighting a
battle that can be resolved
because I don't want to
just be saying bad things.
There are solutions
and that gets back
to those little victory farms
and people having
community gardens and sharing
and really getting to
know their neighbors.
>> George Noory: There's
nothing like a homegrown tomato.
You go to a store and get one
it's like eating cardboard
but you grab one out of your
own garden it's different.
You know I always used to look
at how farmers would spray
with chemicals to kill weeds in
the middle of their corn crop
or their soybean crop and I'm
going they're spraying these
weeds and they're spraying the
ground to kill these weeds.
Doesn't that stuff
grow up into the plant?
And then what does it do to us?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Definitely.
I remember, gosh this
is in the late '80s
or '90s there was
a big announcement
about the use of
Alar for apples.
All the apples throughout the
United States, spraying them
but it was a systemic chemical
that the apple took up so
that it would withstand
bruising when traveling
so we could have our perfect
fruits because of the chemicals.
I'd rather have the bruising
and not have the chemicals.
So I watched, sometimes
I'm lucky and I see
when a story breaks and I follow
it because we get one story
that changes and changes
and becomes spun
into something else.
This was the reverse.
This was an honest
reporting that happened
and that was back then
where they finally said
after all the reports
that it was safe.
Grocery stores were stuffing
your shopping bags with flyers.
All your apples are safe.
Don't worry about this and then
they came out and said yes,
they are problems and
we can't be using this.
>> George Noory: Of course,
there's always problems
that they come out and tell us
later after we bend their arms
or talk about it on the media.
As you all know I am a proponent
of supplements and vitamins
and stuff, yet that area is
under fire too in several ways.
One, I'm confused.
I've got to be very
honest with you.
I'm told take fish oil.
It's good for your heart.
It's good for your arteries
and now I've seen two
independent studies.
I still need to find
out where they're coming
from that says fish oil
is not good for the heart,
could clog up your arteries and
it also causes prostate cancer.
Now what the heck is a person
who's reading information,
trying to digest so much stuff
so we can do what we need to do
for our own health,
what do we do?
I mean you get these
conflicting stories.
I know our friend
Christian Wilde is trying
to investigate this.
He's baffled.
I mean now he's scared.
What do we do?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
I have the book.
They sent me the book
to review the book.
I haven't read through this.
I know some of the warnings
that I've been aware
of for years with fish oils.
There are people who
have sensitivities
to certain fish oils
and they can present
with arthritic type symptoms,
swollen joints, achy joints,
pains but the big
caveat with fish oils are
where are the fish coming from?
What's the size of the fish?
So you have krill oil
which is very popular.
And krill are little tiny fish,
itty-bitty ones that whales eat
so they use krill oil and
that is supposed to be good.
It's got your essential
fatty acids, the DCA,
all of these other
things for the brain
that help your body
function to optimal levels.
I don't get the bad thing,
the bad quality products yes
and that could be
where the research is.
But with what you brought
up George, there are a lot
of studies that get published
every time they're ramping
up attacks against supplements
where they will make a blanket
statement Vitamin E has been
shown to be harmful or
it causes more cancer.
>> George Noory: Or D
is not good for you.
I thought it was good for you.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: But
with Vitamin E you want
to take a Vitamin E that
has mixed tocopherols.
Those are all the naturally
occurring components
of Vitamin E and when you
have that it's balanced.
The body utilizes it.
It's not causing a problem
because something's missing.
So they don't give you the
source and they don't tell you
if it's synthetic or
natural which is a big deal
because our bodies are not going
to find the synthetics
biologically available, so.
>> George Noory: You've
been doing a lot of work
with light emitting diodes.
Let's take a look
at what this is.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Oh, okay.
>> Now Dr. Falkov,
tell me about your work
with live emitting
diode technology.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Oh, thank you.
One of my big areas of interest
for the past six years has been
light emitting diode technology
and I have a very, very
dear friend and colleague,
Harry Whelan who
is a neurologist.
He's in the NASA Hall of Fame.
When I was doing my
research the one name I came
across Dr. Harry
Whelan, Dr. Harry Whelan
and the big impressive data that
he showed through peer review,
double-blind studies
was that the application
of light emitting diodes using
infrared and far-infrared
in the 630 to 680
nanometer wavelength
which stimulates cellular
mitochondrial production
of adenosine triphosphate
and that's the fuel
that powers your muscles, your
nerves, your brain function.
>> George Noory: How
does that work Robin?
How do these light emitting
diodes actually heal people?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Oh gosh.
>> George Noory: And
what do they look like?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
It's wonderful.
We're plugged in for one of the
units and this is the technology
that I found for
my dog, for my dog.
She had contaminated food that
increased her liver enzymes
to five times the range
and I did my investigation
because she was eight years
old, a bullmastiff, large breed.
And everyone is quick
to tell you oh,
you know they only live
seven or eight years.
She lived three more years.
Everything stabilized and I did
apply a slightly different type
machine over her liver and this
is the color of a red light
and the effective wavelength
as I had said is a 630
to 680 nanometer wavelength.
Now Harry Whelan, who I
mentioned, he's in the NASA Hall
of Fame for the research
that he's done for NASA,
for our astronauts
on this technology
and he has his studies that,
peer reviewed studies, that--
yeah, this unit gets hot,
so there's a fan behind
here to cool it off.
And it cycles for
only for four minutes
so you use three applications.
>> George Noory: So you put
it directly on the skin?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: You
put it right on the skin
and you don't have worry
about contamination
because it's recessed
where the lights are.
>> George Noory: Do you move
it or just keep it there?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
You keep it in one place
and you apply it there for four
minutes and if you're treating
that one area you would do it
12 minutes total then you could
move it up to a shoulder.
>> George Noory:
Sore backs, anything?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Yes,
sore backs, dental stuff.
I've just had so much
dental work done.
This stuff, oh my gosh.
My dentist was wowed.
He said, "I can't believe
how well you healed."
So it's great like that.
>> George Noory: Is it
also like a pain reliever?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
It does, yes.
The FDA allows us to
state that this is
for temporary relief pain
and increased circulation
but going back to the peer
reviewed research data
that Harry Whelan did it
showed that that wavelength
of light can increase
the production
of adenosine triphosphate which
is the fuel inside your cells
that makes your muscles contract
and let's your brain think
and all of these
wonderful things
that we need to do to be alive.
It increases that from
200 to 400 percent
and that blows me away.
And I have had reports from
patients and from customers
that are just astonished.
There was one conference that
I was at and I had always asked
if someone in the audience
has pain at the moment
and they can use the machine
and then we'll see afterwards
and at the end when I
finished speaking he said,
"Well Doc, no, no.
I don't know.
I can't really say."
And then two hours later
he's running to tell me.
I can't believe it.
>> George Noory: My father
a long, long time ago,
my late father used to
use an infrared light,
a red infrared light and he
used to hold it on himself
for a while and I'm wondering
if that might have been
the same principle?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: It's
the principle with the red
and the penetration of
infrared to relax muscles
and increase circulation
so it's quite similar.
This has been fine tuned
to that specific wavelength
for the cellular
interaction with it.
>> George Noory: And isn't
amazing in Star Trek,
good old doc would
use a light like that
or something like that to heal.
I remember in "Close Encounters
of a Third Kind" or "ET",
The Extraterrestrial,
the Spielberg movie,
didn't he have a little light
at the end of his finger
and he healed people like that?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Yeah.
>> George Noory: So
there's a technology there.
Does this technology get
better in the future?
Is there anything more
they can do with it?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Yes.
There are enormous
possibilities and you have--
there was a study that
Harry Whelan got approved
for the National
Institute of Health
where he was combining an
engineered blood protein
that would be attracted
to light.
So they engineered it
to be photo-sensitive
so they can implant these
little LEDs in the brain
and then they inject the drug
and it gets drawn to that area
and there's actually a
website anyone can go and look
at Photofriend [assumed
spelling]
where they're using
this to treat cancer
and the only thing you
have to be careful of is
that light sensitization can
be, this would be killer,
but regular room light.
I think there's a period of
about six weeks that you'll want
to wait and be covered and
be very careful with block
to protect yourself
but great results.
>> George Noory: Let's take some
questions for Dr. Robin Falkov.
Yes, right over here.
>> Hi Robin.
My name is Catherine
and I struggle
from some serious health issues
and I am pretty much given
up on modern medicine.
To heal myself I
have my own garden.
I'm a vegetarian.
I want to know where
I can get one
of these machines
that you have there.
Are they available to
be purchased through you
or how would I obtain one?
>> George Noory: Yeah, can
you get these or do you have
to get a prescription
to buy it or what?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: No, you
don't need a prescription
and thank you for the
question Catherine
and it's good what you're
doing with your own garden.
Yes, I sell these units.
>> George Noory: On your website
healthfreedom rights.com.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: And
you're welcome to speak
with me afterwards or however
you'd like to contact me.
>> George Noory: How
long does it take?
Like you were talking about
the guy with the back problem
at the convention, a couple of
hours later he's jumping around.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
That was unusual.
>> George Noory: Generally
how long does it take?
How long do you apply it?
Do you do it every
day and for how long?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Okay.
With this unit you would
apply it for 12 minutes
to one particular
area and then move it.
What happens is your cells
get saturated with light.
The same kind of
biophotonic energy,
a similar kind what you get
when you're picking that tomato
from your garden and it's just
bursting with all the vibrance
from the sun and there are
actual measurements that show
that level of energy that
the cells hold on to.
So you'd wait probably
around four
to six hours before
repeating the treatment again
so that you know it
will be utilized.
But it won't hurt you.
It's very effective and please,
keep in mind there are
many reports from patients
and from friends
and treating animals
of wonderful therapeutic effects
but technically the FDA
allows the statement that it's
for temporary relief of pain
and increased circulation.
>> George Noory: Okay.
Very good.
How valuable is the Internet
these days Robin to people
who want to self-diagnosis
and try to take care
of themselves naturally?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Well, with a little bit
of guidance it's priceless and
what I find very frustrating
for a lot of people that
I've come in contact
with they consider
having a procedure
to get more information,
something diagnostic
and the doctor tells
them, "Don't worry.
There's no issue with this.
There's nothing to
be concerned about."
And you can do Google search
and the way the search
engines are operated it's
from the frequency of
the sites that you go to,
the ones that are on
top, it doesn't mean
that that's the right
information
so in this particular
instance you have to,
it was for a procedure that was
an angioplasty, you have to go
down the page and see and
then maybe seven or eight
down you find out there could be
fluid around the heart, stroke,
inflammation, heart attack,
all kinds of problems
that can happen so you'll
want to proceed carefully.
And that's such a big
challenge that I find
because most doctors will
just do what I said initially,
"Don't worry.
You go home with a band aid.
It's no big deal."
How many patients are
going to push and ask,
what are the complications?
What's the percentage
of complications?
Because me, you, all of us
we fall into that percentage
at one time or another.
You never know when you're
immune system will be different
than expected and you can have a
reaction that they don't expect
so you really have a lot of
due diligence that's necessary
and I feel for everyone
because I find the same thing
for myself, the same
conundrum like the fish oil.
>> George Noory: Do you
recommend that everybody
at least take a multiple
vitamin every day?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Multiple vitamins are great.
You've got to determine if
they have iron in them or not.
There are some viral conditions.
>> George Noory: Some people
can't take iron, right?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Yeah.
>> George Noory:
Hemochromatosis.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Hemochromatosis,
viral infections
they thrive on iron.
So there's all these
different things to check
and you know what a
pain I am about that.
>> George Noory: Well,
you're the one that got me
on to Co-Q 10, saying
that you've got to have
that for your heart and
especially if you're trying
to reduce your cholesterol.
It depletes that in your
body and it's critical
to have that in there.
So I take 200 milligrams a
day, even took one last night.
What has been the
most satisfying thing
for you in this field?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Oh, gosh.
When I get the feedback.
You'd be surprised a lot of
times people don't get back
to you and say, "That
was wonderful.
I feel incredible."
>> George Noory: You need that.
You need to learn.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Yes, yes.
So recently I broke
one of my rules
and someone was having a problem
and I had worked with them
and helped them out and just
simple product for fibromyalgia
and then for sleep
problems and it was
like this woman's life
was back on track.
>> George Noory:
What I've noticed
when you mentioned
sleep problems,
you go to a drugstore they're
all selling now natural sleep
remedies, nonprescription
that you can find right there
over-the-counter these days.
It's amazing, whether it's
melatonin or something else,
a lot of pharmaceutical
companies,
drugstores are beginning to go
natural with a lot of stuff.
Of course, they have
their pharmacies
and they're making a
lot of money doing that
but I've noticed a lot of
natural things on the counters.
What's happening there?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
There's a demand.
They're taking advantage of the
demand and the interesting thing
with melatonin that
I found personally
and then have reproduced
with a lot
of my patients is a low
does is more effective
for knocking you out.
>> George Noory: You're right.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
I was astonished
that that is how it works.
You can get therapeutic
effects with melatonin
for other conditions in
building the immune system
but the low dose works.
The only warning with
melatonin is that if you're
under 30 years old you
don't want to take it
because you want your body
to produce it naturally.
And to do that it's very
important that you sleep
in a dark room and
you're exposure
to bright lights at
night is limited.
>> George Noory: Does your body
generally reduce the production
of melatonin as you get older?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: It depends
upon, you know people sleep
with a light on or the
bathroom door light is on
and that effects your
production of melatonin
and it can taper off but
you can build yourself back
to having the ideal amounts just
with your environment changes.
>> George Noory: Higher doses
you get wild dreams with them.
It's strange
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Sometimes yeah.
>> George Noory: I tested myself
on melatonin about ten years ago
and I think 50 milligrams is
probably the good level now.
Is that what you'd
call low dose?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Oh, no, no
like one milligram is low dose.
>> George Noory: Really?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Oh, God.
>> George Noory: No wonder
I'm having these wild dreams
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
I think I'll have
to try the 50 milligrams
and have some wild dreams.
>> It is amazing.
>> George Noory: There aren't
a lot of people that freeze up
and they don't know
what to ask the doctor
and the doctor probably
isn't a great communicator.
And he or she doesn't know
what to say to the patient.
How many people are like that?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Probably the majority
because what you're dealing
with is something that's
actually measurable.
It's called white-coat syndrome.
When the patient is
at the doctor's office
and they're checking the vitals,
including the blood pressure.
>> I was that way since
I was a young boy.
Whenever I'd going
to the doctor's office my
blood pressure would be
out of control.
They actually thought oh my God
something's wrong with this kid
and as soon as I calmed down
or realized I was leaving
or he wasn't going to give me
a shot it came all the way back
down again.
So that's exactly what
you're talking about
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Yes, definitely.
And you have an attitude
which is unfortunate
because there are
a lot of physicians
that have the right intentions
when they go into healing
and something changes with the
pressures that are put them
by different medical
organizations and the lack
of time and the, oh my gosh,
the nightmare of changes
that we have now with insurance
where you're having doctors
that are dictated to about what
they can do, so they're shorter
with the patient but a lot of
them have this problem with,
I don't know it's
not, pontificating
with being crystal ball readers
where they'll tell someone,
"Well, you're going to
die in three months."
And you can't see that.
You can't judge that.
And what you're doing
is programming somebody
on multiple levels to live
up to that expectation
and as we have discussed
in the past there's
so much that can be done.
So that's the whole function of
being an advocate to reassure
and be that presence either
being there physically there
with them through Skype,
there's so many different ways
so that the patient gets
heard and they're not told,
"That's okay dear, we
know what's best for you."
which happens.
>> George Noory:
It happens a lot.
There was a guy who
went to see his doctor.
He wasn't feeling well and the
doctor gave him a blood test
and he came back and said
"I've got some really
bad news for you."
And he said, "What do you mean?"
He says, "You've got ten."
And the guy says, "Ten?
Ten what? Ten years?
Ten months?
What doc? What?"
And the doctor went,
"Nine, eight, seven, six--
" The doctor wasn't
a good communicator.
What is a patient's advocate?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: It's the
person who will be there when,
I mean, I can accompany someone
to these doctors' visits.
I can be there in the hospital.
There are many ways
to go about it.
I can work with the
family closely.
The big deal is to be available
and I can make myself available
to answer those questions and
then be present through Skype
if I'm not in the same location
because we have a situation
that was just reported on.
About five days ago with a woman
who had what they assumed
was a drug overdose
and they thought
that she was dead.
And she had mixed different
pharmaceutical drugs
and she was out.
>> George Noory: They were ready
to take her organs
out and donate them.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Yes
and she opened her eyes.
>> George Noory: On
the operating table
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: And they
were ready to harvest so I mean,
you cannot leave anybody
alone in the hospital
and even that goes to pets.
It depends on how far
people want to take it.
>> George Noory:
Here's another case.
A couple of weeks ago a
family just got convicted
of their child who died.
It was a diabetic baby and they
elected no medical treatment
at all, simply prayer.
I'm the type of person to
say, look you need it all.
You need natural.
You need modern and
you need prayer.
Put it all together but
they elected simply prayer.
As a patient's advocate I assume
you would have advised them a
little bit more than
just prayer.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Religious beliefs are something
that are very challenging.
I can advise, and the
other doctors can advise.
Ultimately, it's the patient's
right to choose for themselves
and this is what
has been taken away.
>> George Noory: But the courts
have said it's not your right.
You killed your child by telling
them no medical treatment.
So who's right in a
situation like that,
the state or the parent?
The parent who says, look
it's my responsibility,
it's my child, I'm going
to tell them what they want
but the state steps in and says
you did not give this child
proper medical treatment.
There's a definition there
what's proper medical treatment.
But they have convicted these
people for this, homicide.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Oh, my gosh.
That's tragic because
as much as I would
like to see the other
treatments you have got to--
it's a very, very fine line.
It's a very difficult case.
You have got to respect
the parent's right
because when you don't
and the state steps
in as they have done they've
taken children and forced them
to have chemotherapy
and they've killed them.
>> George Noory: I agree.
It is a horrible position for
a parent to be in, either way.
It's almost as if you can't win.
Because at what point
did the state
through schools literally force
people to take injections.
You've got to take this shot.
You've got to take that
shot and you really have
to be a conscientious
objector in order
to get your kid not vaccinated.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Yeah and
there are ways to do that,
to not have your
children be vaccinated
and there are wonderful,
wonderful organizations
that will help and
provide the information
and I share those links.
But you mentioned something very
interesting with the schools.
What a lot of parents
don't understand is
that schools receive additional
government funding for children
that are deemed special needs.
So we have an explosion
of a diagnosis ADD and lo
and behold we've got a
medication to treat it.
Now if parents want to protect
their children they have
to understand that
when you're child goes
into school do not sign
forms that permit testing,
psychological testing or other
testing because if they find
that your child has a clinical
diagnosis they will force
medicate your child.
>> George Noory: Unbelievable.
Just take the kid off sugar.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Thank you, George.
Read my mind.
Clean up the diet, ripe
food from the garden.
>> George Noory: Don't
give him a candy bar.
Give him something else.
It is amazing.
As a patient's advocate,
will the doctor let you
into that room with patient?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Oh yes, they will.
They will.
>> George Noory:
Do they like you?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Sometimes yes, sometimes no.
I've had issues in the
past where I would have
to prescreen doctors for my
patients and I would call
and speak to the
doctors and some
of them did not want
to work with me.
They just said, "No, you
can't work like that."
And I respect that.
That's their opinion and my
patients want me involved
so they don't work
with those doctors.
So it's--
>> George Noory: Is it
uncomfortable sometimes
for the patient, for
you to be in front
of a doctor who's squirming?
Maybe they don't
want to talk to you.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: I've
had my own personal run-ins
with doctors that were
squirming and trying
to push recommendations and all
I kept thinking is don't let me
find out you ever do this
to one of my patients.
>> George Noory: And I assume
a patient who would bring you
into a doctor's office probably
doesn't know the questions
to ask or is afraid and
they need somebody there
to not only guide them
but to hold their hand
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Definitely
and it is such an important part
and you'd be amazed how
quickly that fear goes away
after the first visit and
wow, I'm not wallpaper.
I'm not somebody for them
to just, okay, next person.
I'm heard.
It just makes the experience
something altogether different.
And that's as it should be.
>> George Noory:
Let's do a role play.
You're the patient's advocate.
You're Dr. Robin Falkov and I'm
Dr. George Noory, the oncologist
and you're representing
Aunt Thelma, who has cancer.
And she has come to you
and she says they want me
to start radiation and chemo and
we don't know anything about it.
Can you help us?
What do you do?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Okay well,
first of all for my license
and in the United States
you have to be an oncologist
to treat cancer and the only
approved treatments are chemo,
radiation and surgery
all of which are not part
of my scope of practice.
I work on the immune system
and getting the patient back
in balance, getting that vibrant
state of health to be achieved
because it's amazing
what the body's able
to do once you've done that.
So I will do the
research for Aunt Thelma
and I will show her the
different possible treatments
from chemo, from radiation.
I will explain--
>> George Noory: Do
you get a blood test
and look at her chemistry?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Sure.
Yeah. I can order labs and
get the blood tests done.
Now for everyone there's
something very important
to keep in mind.
There are specific tests
that are done for cancer,
like the carcinoembryonic
antigen test, the CEA test
and you can have your
numbers that are perfect,
no evidence whatsoever
and you can have cancer.
So you need a visual check.
I think March was colon cancer
month and there are a lot
of reasons for getting
a colonoscopy to have
that seen just for
that particular reason
that you can be the picture of
health from your blood work.
There are a lot of other
indicators from the blood work.
So you go from that and the
information is kind of slanted
with explanations for
chemo and the side effects
and the survival rates and
they give you a survival rate
of five years.
Now chemotherapy is-- they
consider that a success.
It's a highly toxic drug.
We now have doctors and nurses
that are administering
this whole family
of highly toxic drugs
that have cancer just
from handling the products and
doing IVs for the patients.
>> George Noory:
They got cancer?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
They got cancer as well.
But the chemo and the radiation
can cause a great proportion
of the time secondary cancers.
Some people if they're
that run down
and depleted it might
show up very soon.
Other people it might show
up five years and one day
and you're past that
survival rate
so they consider you a success.
>> George Noory: So if
you come in with Thelma
and you're interviewing me
and were questioning whether
to give her chemo or
radiation and I say we're going
to administer both to Thelma.
We're going to give
her chemo and radiation
over an eight week period.
What do you say?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: I ask the
doctor what other alternatives
do you feel there
are for Thelma?
>> George Noory: There are no
other alternatives for Thelma.
We will give her
chemo and radiation.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Okay,
and then I ask Thelma,
what do you want for yourself?
>> George Noory: And she goes,
"I don't know, I don't know.
You decide Robin?"
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Well,
I don't make is the
decisions for my patients.
I will give them information
so that they can make
their own informed choices
and that's what I would do.
There are wonderful lifestyle
changes that a patient can make.
They're a lot of work.
Not everybody wants to do that.
They want to quick fix.
So you might find somebody
that thinks chemo's
really the answer for me.
I want to go that
route no matter what
and that's your choice.
You have to respect it.
But I will make sure
that everything,
option-wise that I've come up
with is presented to Thelma--
>> George Noory: And her family
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Yes, and
her family so they understand
and thank the doctor for his
time and ask him to write
out specifically what there is,
what assurances he can
make for the treatment.
What kind of side
effects can be expected?
What other options are there
with the drugs that he's chosen.
Is he doing genetic testing
to discover the sensitivity
of that particular type
of cancer to the drugs
that are being recommended?
In other words how
thorough is he?
If you're going that
route there are ways
to do it and do it thoroughly.
I'm not here to push my way.
I'm here to provide
the information
to make informed choices.
>> George Noory: Well, you
know I interviewed a person
from the City of Hope,
Cancer Research Center
and that doctor told me
specifically, chemo is poison.
That was the word but she said,
"We're working on ways to try
to avoid all of that."
What they want to do is to be
able to target the cancer cell
and not all the healthy
cells around it.
I hope they come up with
something that can do that.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: They
have treatments like that.
They are very interesting
treatments and that isolation
of the cancerous cell or
that particular tumor depends
upon location.
Some areas are not optimal
for that kind of a treatment.
For something in the lung you
can do those isolated, you're in
and out the same day or the next
day where they use a laparoscope
to view where the tumor is
and then you have something
called radio frequency ablation.
They're using microwave
now and this tube go in
and these little wire baskets
will surround that tumor
and the radio waves or
microwaves actually heats it
and that breaks down the
protein in the tumor.
The body absorbs it and
then it's eliminated.
You can do that but there
are certain other areas
where let's say if it's in the
wall of the colon you can wind
up with leakage into
the abdominal cavity.
>> George Noory: I
had a friend of mine.
He was an ophthalmologist, went
in for a routine colonoscopy,
routine and he figured you
know what I've never had this
done before.
He went to a friend of
his who was another doctor
and the doctor punctured
his intestine during
this colonoscopy.
He got septic shock and they
literally had to operate on him.
Cut him from here to here.
Took the intestine out and
bathed and washed it for a day
or so while this guy
was on some machine
and then they put
it back into him.
He's not the same.
He is all chopped up.
He's now come up with a hernia
that they put a mesh in on him
and they have to go in
and take that out now.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
But there's a recall.
>> George Noory: Yeah,
there's a recall on that.
It's just a disaster.
Let's take some questions
for Dr. Robin Falkov.
Yes, right here.
>> I enjoy the show
Robin, thank you.
I have a question.
What's the mechanics
behind acupuncture?
And also what's the spiritual
implications with acupuncture?
>> George Noory: A lot
of people swear by it.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Yes and
those are great questions
and I have to say I
went back to school
so that I would have a
comprehensive license
as a Doctor of Oriental Medicine
and part of that training is
that you work with patients in
clinic and I would have patients
that come in with chronic
problems, five years,
seven years and after three or
four visits they're telling me
that they're better and
I would say, "Really?
Are you sure?
Are you sure?"
So an easy concept
to consider is just
as we have blood circulating
through our bodies,
we have energies
circulating through our bodies
and the Chinese have a
written history of medicine
for over three thousand
dollars years
and those energy pathways
are called meridians.
And there are specific points
on these specific locations
that coordinate with
different systems of the body
and that's how you determine
how to treat a patient.
So you are tapping into
those energy pathways and one
of the principles of
Chinese medicine is
that blockage causes stagnation.
Stagnation, you have swelling,
things don't move, obstructions
or pain so if you can get
that energy moving and heal
that blockage that is the
premise for restoring health.
>> George Noory: The needles
that they put into people,
the acupuncture needle,
they're really fine aren't they?
And they use a little tap
or a hammer to get it in?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: No.
I have to say they're all
different sizes and lengths
of needles and in China the
traditional Chinese medical
physicians will use
some very long ones
and you can actually go through
the hand, go through the ankle.
>> George Noory: Really?
Wow.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: I've had
to use some very long needles
that were a thicker gauge with a
patient who was very overweight
and you're trying
to do a treatment
with thickened skin it's
challenging but you--
it's experience to play with
it and once the needles are
in there's so much that can
be done by your physician
because you can regulate
how the energy's moving.
You can stimulate late it
or you can suppress it.
>> George Noory: Okay.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: So it's
open to fine tuning the needs
for the patient and that's a big
deal, to have those treatments
that deal with you
as an individual.
>> George Noory: Yeah,
people swear by it.
Well, let's go to our
Beyond Belief cam.
We've got a question
for Dr. Robin Falkov.
>> Hey Robin, this is Kelly in
Anchorage and I'm just wondering
if you think the health
information that's available
to us is going to get
better in the future?
>> George Noory: Well, that's
an interesting question.
I thought it was pretty good now
with the Internet
but maybe it isn't
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Gosh,
that's such a big
question George.
It's a wonderful question
that Kelly brought up
and what we are looking at
and which is something
I've discussed for years,
how to protect our
right to have access
to the necessary information
to make informed choices there's
lot of information that's not
out there like it used to be.
There are a lot of medical
research papers that you have
to pay a fee in order
to read the paper
and that can get very pricey.
In the past, I was able to
do a search for patient's
and treatments around
the world and get a list
of what's being done in
western medical therapy research
and alternative and go
through all of this data.
It's not available because
they have to pay fees.
So you have the FDA that has
come down on cherry growers,
on wall nuts, on prunes.
You cannot make these claims for
therapeutic effects from foods
because that would
classify them as drugs.
Life Extension Magazine has--
>> George Noory: Can
you say may help?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: There are
so many changes now George.
I have to tell you it's, for
everything that I discussed
about Codex they are
in their end game.
Things are disappearing
from the marketplace.
What they've done to restrict
information is let's say there's
a website that's selling
nutritional supplements.
You want to go and read about
the products and that's covered
by DSHEA which is the
Dietary Supplement Health
and Education Act that was
passed in I believe 1992,
by an outstanding response from
the people of this country.
I mean they flooded letters and
faxes and the law was passed.
It's constantly being
challenged.
We have the Durbin
challenge now.
I mean there's so
much that is going on.
So that information
they want to remove
so you can't see what these
supplements can provide.
And the insanity about cherries
and things that have been
around for so long they
have restricted it.
That's not in our best interest.
You know we need that
information to decide
for ourselves and what we're
getting is a nanny government
that's making the
decisions for us?
I don't know who wants that?
>> George Noory: Here's the
one thing I think we need
to regulate and I don't
know how we do this
without being considered forcing
but to regulate the quality
of the supplements
that are being made
because how could we decide
whether this turmeric capsule I
take is better than
one that might be made
in some country and
their crooks.
You know they're not putting in
the ingredients that we need.
So what about trying to
regulate it, not control it
but at least regulate the
quality of what it is?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
It's a very touchy point
because that quality control
and that testing can be millions
of dollars and what's
happened in Europe
and other countries is the big
pharmaceutical companies have
absorbed all of these small guys
because they can't
afford to do the testing.
I think it was four years ago
when they pulled 200
different herbal products
or they only left
200 herbal products
and the rest they said
you have to do the testing
and these companies didn't
have the money for it.
So it's a fine line and we need
different review committees
that oversee that
kind of testing
and people need to
read the labels.
But yes it's a real fine
point if the label is honest.
>> George Noory: But
how do you know that?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Yes, I know.
>> George Noory: A
reputable company only?
Somebody like that?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Well that's
what it gets to at this point.
>> George Noory: And hope
that they do their homework?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: And
it's kind of challenging
when so much product is imported
from China, so much
raw material.
>> George Noory: We
have seen what products
from China have done to dogs
with lead tainting
and everything else.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
The melamine
to increase the protein
testing that's blown
out dog's liver's
and killed them.
I mean there is an awful lot
of issues and then we find
out that we're the more
ingredients being produced.
They're not in the
United States anymore.
They're in China.
So the good thing, the Chinese,
when they catch somebody they'll
kill them in their company.
>> George Noory:
Yeah, they will.
Some of these CEOs
they've committed suicide
after an event.
I mean they take
these things seriously
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Yeah
and it should be serious.
Your life is on the line.
Your loved one's
lives are on the line.
I mean, why?
This is what boggles
my mind George.
Why have people accepted
what we have now
when it can be so much better?
>> George Noory: What do
you recommend people do
to better their health, to get
themselves back in a straight
and narrow path because
I happen to think
that your health beyond your
career is more important
than anything because if you
have loved ones you can't be
there with them.
You can't be there for
them if you don't take care
of yourself first and foremost.
And you know every day
when I've got a news story
about this Hollywood actor
has died or this has happened
to this person or something
like that what go people do
so that they're doing
it the right way?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Oh, gosh.
You take inventory.
If you work with someone
like me, I'm not easy.
I like to go to the
homes of my patient
or with Skype we can walk
around and go through everything
and examine cleaners
in the home.
The use of pesticides,
personnel care products,
reading the labels because
if you have health conditions
you'll want to remove
all of those burdens
and give you yourself
a chance to heal.
So you go through that.
You go through food.
Food is a sensitive subject.
I can say I'm doing
it for everyone
that says, oh, it's impossible.
In September it will
be two years
that my diet is raw and people--
>> George Noory: And
it works for you.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
It works for me.
People look at me
like I'm an alien.
It's challenging.
Well, oh but we have some
steamed vegetables or whatever.
The people that I've seen on
raw diets the clock stops.
Whenever they started
the clock stops
and then things can
even go back.
So you're lifestyle.
What's in your home?
What's in your workplace?
You have to examine that the
kind of clothing you wear,
the supplements that
you're taking,
the food that you're eating, all
of these areas and the water,
the basic water that you drink.
>> George Noory: The pH level.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Yes,
for your body to measure pH,
for what you're consuming,
what you're cooking,
what you're bathing.
Just think about what
happens in the shower.
Your pores are dilated and
there's so many toxic chemicals.
They get sucked in through
all those dilated pores
from the heat and
you're poisoning yourself
in the shower.
So shower filtration
units are important,
filtration units for the house.
There's all different ways and
different choices but you've got
to look at your foundation
and then you've got
to know what you're
neighbors are doing.
Or if you're in an
apartment building some
of them routinely come through
and spray with pesticides
for the apartments that want
it but meanwhile it goes
through the air conditioning
systems.
So you have to troubleshoot.
You can take it to
a greater length.
If you're in a state like
Florida where they do spraying
for mosquitos and ask
that you be called.
I mean just think about all of
the animals that are outside.
>> George Noory: Oh, my
God your dog or walking.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Or their food
or you're walking
with your animal.
>> George Noory: And here comes
the mosquito spraying man.
You remember drive-in theatres?
Do they still have those?
No, they don't.
But do you remember?
You're sitting in your car,
your parents are in the front.
The windows are down.
It's a hot summer day and
there's a truck out there
with the mosquito spray just
shooting all over the lot
and we're breathing
all this stuff.
Show of hands, how many of
you really think you take care
of yourself health-wise?
That's less than half, Robin.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
But that's impressive.
>> George Noory:
You really think so?
I think it's too low.
Everybody should
have their hands up.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
But everybody doesn't.
This is, you've got
quite an audience.
This is impressive that
you have these numbers
that really feel
they're doing a good job.
It's challenging and
there's pressure.
There's pressure from families.
Oh, come on.
What's the big deal if
you cheat a little bit?
You know, you can eat this once
in a while or you can do this
or can use this product.
We have to respect each other
and respect our choices.
So I would love to see
everybody with their hands up.
>> George Noory: When
we get to a certain age
in our lives we are going
down the home stretch
and you know you have a
certain window of life.
When I was 20, I thought
30 was the end of time.
When I was 30, I thought
40, gosh that's old.
I don't think that way anymore.
Now it's just to enjoy
life for the rest
of whatever time we have left.
I keep looking at the story of
Tony Soprano, James Gandolfini.
I was with him in Beverly
Hills a few months ago.
Wonderful guy.
51 years old.
Who would have thought that?
Overweight, didn't
seem to be healthy,
abused himself a little bit
too much I think with drinking
and he died just like that,
had a wonderful future.
He had everything he wanted.
It's over.
You've got to take
care of yourself.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Definitely.
You never know what
can happen tomorrow.
So if you want to get the
most out of life, yes,
take care of yourself.
Exercise. We are
such a lazy country.
I think the good news is we
finally have another country
that surpassed us in
the obesity level.
So we're not number
one there anymore
but exercise be it
walking, be it,
I love the little
mini-trampolines.
It's pretty hard for anyone to
have an excuse not to use that
and I try to use that every day.
>> George Noory: You jump
on a little trampoline?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
I jog because I've--
>> George Noory: You
don't fall off it?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: No.
No, I don't fall off it.
But because I've done years
of ballet and martial arts
and horseback riding I have
all different aches and pains
so bouncing up and down is
like oh, it's like going
through your life experience.
Jogging lightly on it is great.
You can do it.
It doesn't hurt and it's just
so beneficial for the body
to help you detox and move all
the waste out of your body.
Because where are
most of us every day?
In front of our computers, a
big block of our time is spent
in front of our computers
sitting.
So taking a little break
and using a mini-trampoline.
If you go to the gym, if you
have equipment, if you hike
but you've got to do something.
>> George Noory: People want
information on what you do
and the things you do.
How do they find you?
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Okay.
I'm easy to find.
Healthfreedomrights.com
is my website.
I have a radio show "What
They Don't Want You to Know."
All the information is at
healthfreedomrights.com.
I answer all my e-mails.
>> George Noory: Super, Dr.
Robin Falkov on Beyond Belief.
Thank you Robin [applause]
>> Dr. Robin Falkov:
Thank you George.
It was a pleasure.
>> George Noory:
You're the best.
Great show.
Super job.
>> Dr. Robin Falkov: Thank you.
[ Music ]